[Music]
All right. Today we're going to do bench
press. I'm warming up. Light dumbbells.
Lots and lots of reps. you got something
special in store for you today and that
is an in-depth bench press tutorial
where I'm going to teach you the
technique that I use. And this has done
huge things for my bench press strength,
my upper body development, as well as my
ability to coach people at the highest
level. So, this bench press technique is
going to make you stronger, bench press
more, more muscular, protect your
shoulders, all of those good things.
and I'm giving it to you for free.
You're welcome. Starting off with my
warm-ups. All I'm doing is a push pull.
So, dumbbell press with a light weight.
Lots and lots and lots of reps. Lat pull
down with a light weight. Lots and lots
and lots of reps. The reason why I like
a lat pull down is because this part
here, the position my shoulder blades
are in here is the exact position that
we're going to use for the entire bench
press. So when I do a lat pull down, my
shoulder blades move forward and back
and forward and back. But in the bench
press, I want them here the whole
time. Okay? I want them back and down
towards my back pockets the whole time.
So that's what my back looks like when I
bench is I'm arching shoulders back and
down. And that's how I do
it. That's how you do it. But we also
position our body in a way. So legs. So
I'm going to teach you about leg drive.
And the way that I leg drive isn't
really leg drive. I call it cranking the
arch. Right? So the way that I position
my
legs for stability, but also to position
my body
correctly, to press as much weight as
possible, as safely as possible.
Today my plan is to bench press 160 kg
um for 10 reps. Last week I did two sets
of 10 on 155. So I got up by 5 kg. Um I
should be able to do it except I
squatted pretty heavy two days ago. My
arms are killing me. Um, which is why,
you know, I know like 160 kgs is heavy,
but for me it's technically it's a light
day. So my heavy day will be around 200
kg. Um, so this is my my rep work. And
yeah, 160 for 10 is the top set. If it's
comfortable, I'll do two sets of it.
Okay, how many warm-up sets do I
do? I'm going to warm up to my first top
weight. So, sorry, my first warm-up
weight. So, I'm going to start over on
the bench press with a red plate on each
side, which is 70 kg. Um, so I did 25.
So, I'm going to work to the exact same
weight, um, which is going to be 35 kg
dumbbells. So, I can do that now. So, 35
+ 35 equ= 70. When I do a warm-up set on
this, this is like the third or fourth
set, right? So, this is going to be the
exact weight that I'm going to be
starting
with with the
barbell. So, technically, like I'm
pretty warm now. Um, I'll do one more
set of lat pull downs and then I'm going
to stop doing the lat pull downs. So, a
lot of the times when I program for for
other
people, even myself, when I'm not going
super super heavy, I'll do a push with a
pull. So, I'll superset. It's called
opposing muscle supersets. And the
advantage of doing that is you get to
have twice the amount of work in the
same amount of time. So instead of just
doing a bench press and resting for
however
long, you get to do a bench press and
rest for half the time and do the
opposing muscle group and then have the
same amount of rest. So it's like push 2
to 3 minutes pull 2 to 3 minutes push 2
to 3 minutes pull. So usually uh that's
a really effective way of training
because it's a it's non-over overlapping
muscles. So it's not hugely fatiguing.
So you can normally bench press the same
amount and row the same amount with less
rest. So that's the benefit of
supersets. Nothing else. It's just a
time saver, which is a great thing. But
right now, whenever I want to go
heavy, even though I said it doesn't
really, it's non-over overlapping
muscles and it's not hugely fatiguing.
When you're doing opposing muscle
supersets, there still is some fatigue.
And when I'm coaching, either training
myself or coaching a high level bencher,
um, if they're doing a a big bench press
set, I'll make sure that we do take the
time. So instead of super seting with a
push and pull for my first exercises of
the day, I'll just do bench press as a
standalone. So that's me. Did I just do
a set of pull downs? I have to do them.
Thank you. See that? I get sidetracked.
The purpose of this is just to warm up
my shoulders nicely.
And then uh no more pull downs. I'm
going to do my bench
press session in its entirety. So I'll
just do straight bench. Work up to a set
of 160 for 10. Uh and if that's easy,
I'll do two sets of 10. And then that'll
be my benching for the day. Starting
with wrist wraps. So the middle of the
wrap is in line with the center of the
wrist joint. Right? So I don't just go
underneath the wrist joint. So I've got
to go over the wrist joint. So, one and
then I go little bit down, little bit
down. That's nice and comfortable. You
know, technically I don't need it for
this light weight, but I get used to the
feeling. So, this is what a lot of
people do when they're doing their
warm-ups and their bench press and then
they get to the top weight and then they
say to me, "Do you think I should use a
wrist strap for this?" And I say, "Yes,
I do think you should have, but you
should have warmed up that way so it
wasn't unfamiliar by the time you got to
the top set." You don't want to make any
changes from your last warm-up set to
your top set. Anyway, let's have a look
at this. Starting at the edge of the
bench so that when I lay down, I don't
bump my head on the barbell. Okay, so
that's queue number one. Then I slide
back, bring my head off the bench so
that I can bring my feet back far
enough. Okay, so this is the idea. I
want to bring my feet back as far as
possible. Get up on the balls of my feet
and push it downwards. Okay, see what I
did? I say I'm pushing my feet
downwards, my heels downwards. And a lot
of people mistake this for, oh, you said
you're pushing your heels down. It's
like, yeah, I am. They're not touching
the ground. Okay, I'm still on the balls
of the feet and I'm pushing with
downwards pressure and I'm trying to
touch the ground even though they won't.
But technically, what I want is a 45°
angle for the sole of my foot. Okay. So,
heels down, slide into position. Okay.
Now, from here, my eyes are behind the
bar, grabbing the barbell in in my
preferred grip, which is wide. So, from
here, remember the position that I told
you with a lat pull down when my
shoulder blades are back and down.
That's what I squeeze them. Okay.
Unrackck. Okay. Unrackck. Slide into
position. Heels down, down, up, down,
up.
So if you look closely, the bar path is
not exactly straight down and up.
However, when you position your body
correctly, which is, you know, arching
the upper back, arching the upper back,
externally rotating this bone, so that
tucks the elbow that makes so all you
think is down and up and the barbell
will naturally take its natural bar
path, which is slightly diagonally down
towards kind of your sternum and then
back up towards the shoulder.
Okay. But you think and I teach people
down and up. I also another cue that I
don't teach is to tuck the elbows. Once
again, it's something that should
naturally happen if you're moving
correctly. So, of course, objectively, I
want the elbows tucked a little bit, but
that naturally happens when you pull
your shoulder blades back and down. It
positions the elbows where they need to
go. So, I go red and then red and half
and then two reds, which will be 120.
So, 70, 95, 120, then I'll go 140 and
then 160. So 25 kilo incremental
increase and then and then 20 kilo
incremental increase for the last
set. I always put clips on the bench. So
this is a safety thing you can do is not
put clips on the bench if you've got no
one around. So that if you fail a rep,
you can kind of just slide and the
weights will fall off. So that's a
safety thing. But what I do for safety
is I
have someone's reset it. But I have
these face savers
here, right? So if I don't get the rep,
I can just drop the the weight on
this. So so many times I do a set of
anything or I see people doing sets
without the clips on it and the weights
they slide and it's like, why do you
want it to be uneven like that? Do it
properly. Okay, next set 95
kg. Something that you would have heard
on this set because I didn't talk was
that I held my breath from start to
finish, which is something that I teach
for the bench press only.
So, when you when you do a squat or a
deadlift or any exercise where you're
lifting heavy weight while you're
standing, I never recommend holding your
breath the whole way. You hold your
breath for each repetition, but then you
exhale and repeat. But with a bench
press, if I'm doing a set of 10, which
is what I'm going for today, I'm going
to try and hold my breath for the entire
set of 10. And the reason for that is
technique. So when I lay on a bench,
this technique of uh pulling my shoulder
blades back and down is actually quite
an unnatural movement. Right? So when
you when you throw a ball or throw a
punch or or push, that action here is
paired with protraction of the scapula,
which is my shoulder blade coming
forward. And I'm teaching you to keep
your shoulder blades back when you do a
heavy bench press. So some people say
that's not natural human movement. So
therefore, it's bad for your natural,
it's called your scapular hummeral
rhythm. And it's bad. Well, here's the
next thing that's
bad. The bench press is not natural
because you're trying to push a heavy
object while laying on the bench, which
stops your shoulder blades from moving
naturally, right? So, when I'm doing a a
push-up or an overhead press, my
shoulder blades can move freely in
space. Whereas a bench press, when I'm
laying on the bench, when I especially
the goal is when you're bringing the bar
down to your chest, you want your
shoulder blades to be moving backwards,
backwards, backwards, backwards. That
make sense? So like imagine a row. So as
I'm bringing the bar down to my chest, I
want my shoulder blades to come back.
But if you start with, you know, natural
human movement when you unrackck and
your shoulder blades are protracted,
when you bring the heavy weight down to
your chest, your shoulder blades won't
be able to get in the position that they
need to be, which is retraction in this
bottom position. And that's
where in my experience people tear their
peace or injure their shoulders because
they're unable to position themselves in
the retracted position when the barbells
on the chest which is why I say start
there. So you start the unrackck with
the shoulder blades back and
down. Now I started talking about this
in relation to breath hold. So what's it
got to do with breath hold? Well, all of
these actions that we're doing, one
action leads to the next. Okay? So, when
I bring my feet back and heels down, the
joint that's moving, it's my hip joint.
So, this is called hip joint extension.
Feet back, heels down, extends my hip,
which anterly rotates my pelvis. So, hip
extension paired with anterior pelvic
rotation. So, when you arch your tail
like this, so when you anterly rotate
your pelvis, feel what happens at your
spine. It arches your spine or extends
your spine. So the other direction, so
posterior tilt is paired with flexion of
the spine. Anterior tilt is paired with
extension of the spine. So extension is
the arch, right? So feet back, heels
down, arches the back. The next thing it
does, arching the back pulls your
shoulder blades back and down. So what's
the opposite? Rounding the back pulls
your shoulder blades forward. So into
protraction, whereas whereas extension
or or arching retracts your scapula. Do
you get it? So feet back, heels down,
retracts my scapula. It also externally
rotates my upper armbbone. Okay. So this
is the chain reaction from toe to
fingers. Okay. The next thing that's
paired with that, so externally rotating
the upper arms tucks the elbows. So when
I internally rotate it, that flares the
elbows. So external rotation is paired
with elbow tucking, which is why I don't
teach people to tuck their elbows. It
happens naturally. Now, one last thing
that ties all that together is breath
hold. Okay, so breath hold is paired
with elevation of the rib cage. Okay, so
same with arching your back is elevating
your rib cage. Okay, so elevating the
rib cage with my breath hold. Big
breath, hold your breath arches and
expands your rib cage, which also
positions your shoulder blades back and
down. Now, what's the opposite of that?
Exhalation drops my rib cage which
flexes my spine and protracts my
scapula. Okay. So therefore doesn't mean
if you breathe out you can't position
your back in in that way but it does
affect it a little bit. Okay. Like maybe
a millimeter. So if you exhale when
you're in this
position it can drop your rib cage and
make your shoulder blades lose position
by maybe a millimeter. But think about
it. How many millimeters do I want you
out of position? 0 millm. if you're
trying to maximize your potential. Okay,
so let's have a look at this again. I'm
going to go through all of those steps
with the breath hold. Where do I put
that clip? Yeah. And I'm not going to
talk because when I do that, when I hold
my breath, I can't talk. Sitting at the
edge of the bench so I don't bump my
head on the barbell. Okay. So, I don't
just go straight back with my foot
position. That's as far back as I can
get my feet now. But when I bring my
head back, I can bring them back even
further. Okay? So, that really
exaggerates the position. That's why I
say start with your head back. Grab the
bar. Okay, get your feet in position.
Okay, and then slide with the heels
down. Okay, so eyes behind the barbell,
shoulder blades back and down. Now from
here, big
breath. Exhale on completion of the
set. Next set 140. All right, so let's
set up my tripod. If you've been
following, you'll see that I like to
record my sets, uh, my warm-up sets, so
that I can make sure that I'm using all
the right techniques from start to
finish, uh, which I haven't been doing
now. Sometimes I get a little bit
sidetracked. Still like to see the
warm-ups. This will be my last warm-up,
140 kg. I'll just do one rep. Usually,
my bench press position doesn't change
that much because I've got the bench to
help set me up. So, squats, it changes a
lot. Deadlifts, it changes a lot.
There's a lot more room for error. With
the bench press, it's easier to hold
yourself in
[Music]
position. So, the
recording 45° front on. Front or behind,
it doesn't really matter. So, so this is
front on. So, where Alex is. So, that's
that's a good angle. I can see
everything. Side on, I can't see
anything completely behind. It's kind of
like a two-dimensional image. So when
you want to record yourself 45° so
diagonally front or behind either one is
good okay that was 140 you know of
course it felt lot easier, but doesn't
really tell me if I got 10 reps on 160
or
not. Hope I
do pre and postworkout nutrition. Salty
water. Can't really see. Like that.
looked decent,
but we don't know until we know.
Gotcha. Gotcha.
Thank you, bro. Thank you,
bro. Yeah, 10 reps.
Um, definitely harder than last week's
155 for 10. Obviously, because it's 5 kg
heavier. Um, but also my arms are
definitely feeling it from from the
squats. Do I do another
set? You can't say that to YouTube and
expect anyone in YouTube to say, "No,
don't do another set." So, anyway, we
know the answer. Means I got to do
another set.
Oh
man, I don't even get a chance to sit by
myself. This guy's got the camera on me.
up, man.
Thank you, bro. Yeah, 2x10. It's been a
while since I've done 2x10. Actually,
I've done 10 reps on 160 a number of
times since I've been this body weight.
But,
um, a
second. But not two sets of 10. So, that
deserves another fist bump.
Sick. Anyway, um, all right. So, guess
what we're doing next? We're doing
accessories, right? So, here's a few
rules with programming. Okay, write this
down. Write this down and use it. First
exercise is the highest priority to
achieving your goal. So, it's usually
the most complex movement of the day,
right? So, the opposite of that is you
might have heard of principles like
pre-exhaust training where you kind of
like do an isolation exercise to fatigue
the pegs and then you then you do your
heavy sets. I don't like that because
I'm about performance and that's going
to decrease your performance.
So the most the highest priority to um
the highest relevance to achieving your
goal goes first. Second
exercise, the muscles and joint angles
that you've neglected in the main
movement. Okay? So think about what I
did with my bench press. I did pecs and
delts and triceps. That's all my pushing
muscles. However, when I arch like that,
I'm reducing the range of motion,
especially with a wide grip in the arch.
Great for powerlifting because it allows
me to lift a heavier weight. So you want
a lever, you want to use leverage, uh
you know, you want to be more efficient,
but then it neglects like a full stretch
position of the pecs, right? So this is
where I make up for that in my secondary
exercises, right? So you may have heard
a word being thrown around called
exercise redundancy, which is where
people do things like flat bench press
for the first exercise. Then it's like,
what can make my flat bench press even
better? Do more pressing with the exact
same angle. So they go dumbbell press
with the same grip and the same angle.
And then they'll do, you know, machine
press with the same grip and the same
angle. That's hitting the same muscles
from the exact same angle. You've like
those muscles are done. Now, so what I
want to do is hit the muscles and areas
that I had neglected in the main
movement. Okay? So, uh, that's what
we're going to do. So, it's going to be
an incline dumbbell press. The next
thing I like to do with my dumbbells is
change the angle of the grip. Right? So,
with the barbell, I have no choice but
to use a pronated grip. Right? So
there's no point coming into a dumbbell
and doing a pronated grip dumbbell,
especially when I have the option to
make the change with the barbell. I
don't have the option to make the
change. So So I'm going to go the angle
that I didn't hit, which was that flat
was the first exercise. I'm going to go
an
incline and then the hand angle is going
to be from pronated to neutral. So
that's what's up next.
Set one. 10 reps. U. Did you notice the
form was slightly less aggressive to my
bench bench press? I want to smash it.
Just get those reps up and down. This
one I like a little bit more control.
And think about this is the difference
between strength training or one of the
differences between strength training
and building muscle. Strength training,
the goal is movement patterns, moving
away from A to
B. Muscle building training, you want to
think more about like internal queuing,
like thinking about the muscle
contraction to overcome the weight. So,
I'm thinking about my pecs when I do my
bodybuilding exercises or my hypertrophy
exercises. So, that's why I'm not just
smashing it, smashing it. It's nice and
controlled, full stretch, and
very good form is the goal. So, I'll do
one more set of that. But now what I'm
going to do, remember how I spoke about
opposing muscle supersets? So now my
performance or the amount of weight that
I lift isn't as important. So the first
set I didn't want to cause any
unnecessary fatigue. That's why I did
bench press, waited 8 minutes as a
standalone. So bench press, wait 8
minutes, and then bench press again. Now
I'll do a dumbbell press and then I'll
wait four minutes and then I'll do the
opposing
muscles which are going to be uh the lat
pull down that I warmed up on.
uh 15 reps there. I find I do better I
feel my back muscles better when I use a
high rep range. It's like bench press. I
know it's high reps for everything
today, but I could do like a 1 to five
rep range on a bench press just fine.
But I wouldn't do one to five rep range
on a lat pull
down. Just wouldn't feel right for many
reasons. Usually when you go so heavy,
like think about another similar
exercise like a pull-up. What do most
people look like when they're not strong
enough to do high rep pull-ups when
they're doing a pull-up like with one to
five reps? Typically, not always, but
typically that's where you see kind of
like this this technique because they're
fighting as hard as they can to get the
chin over the bar cuz that's one full
pull-up, right?
But what are you trying to achieve with
a pull-up? Are you trying to get your
chin over the bar? Good. Well, then you
did well. Or are you trying to build a
certain set of muscles of your back,
which is typically your lats, and then
your midback muscles, which is your
romboids and trapezius? Because if you
are, then the technique matters. And
this whole thing of, you know, rounding
your shoulders and pulling the chin over
the bar, you're not using your midback
muscles. The midback muscles are
responsible for pulling the shoulder
blades back and down. So, when I do
pull-ups or pull downs, I always
prescribe it with the technique that
allows you to bring your shoulder blades
back and down with correct
technique, which also goes hand in hand
with using a higher rep range and
lighter loads. So, that's why whenever
I'm doing a program, I don't always have
to like I know I'm doing 10 for my
pressing, but you don't have to do 10
for everything. I choose the appropriate
rep range for the appropriate exercise.
So 15s. I like that for pull
downs. Not saying it's the only rep
range. It's just what I like to do
today. Do one more set of each.
Okay, two by 10. I'll do another set of
that pull downs and then uh the next one
we're going to do other muscles that we
didn't target. So something I like to do
is joint health for the relevant joint.
So the first exercise is your highest
priority for achieving your goal. Second
exercise is whatever you neglected in
the main movement, right? So that's
incline angle plus a neutral grip plus a
full range of motion. So the the arch is
reduced range of motion. So that's much
more complete. Same muscles, but it's
much more complete now. It's hitting the
areas that I neglected in the main
movement. Then the third exercise for
the day, I like to consider something
where we're targeting like joint health
for the main acting joint. So the the
most problematic joint in this picture
is the shoulder joint. So elbows are
good, not as complex, but shoulder
health is something that I love to do on
my heavy upper body days. So there's two
exercises that I like. One is a push
pattern, one is a pull pattern, and I'm
going to show you in a minute.
So flies are a great exercise. Um, but
to be honest with you, I mean, I could I
could include them, but it's like
there's so many great exercises. How
many exercises do you want to do in a
day when you're getting stronger? Like
I'm in the strong end of my phase. The
stronger you get, the heavier you lift,
the less volume you should be doing,
right? So I did two sets of 10 on 160.
I'm smashed to be honest with you. If I
walked out of the session with just
that, it wouldn't make me weaker. Like
that's pretty effective. I could even
get stronger and then next week do even
better. Um but you know, hitting a
little bit of accessory exercises, but
still only two more sets. So I did two
sets of 10. Two sets of 10. And then
I'll probably do, you know, two or three
sets of the ancillary exercises. So,
it's not a lot of sets, but it's a lot
of weight. So, that's how you calculate
volume. It's not just the reps and the
sets. You include load. Reps times sets
times load. That's known as volume load.
And I've accumulated a lot. So, yeah,
there's so many great exercises. There's
pec deck. There's machine exercises.
There's cable flies. There's dips. So
many great exercises. But where do you
stop? I can't do it all in one day,
right? So, you got to do a good amount.
And then I'll use those exercises on a
on another phase. So, flies. Excellent
exercise, just not today. Last
set. Next exercise, shoulder health. And
we're going to do thing called
protraction push-ups. So, get this
right. Remember how I told you about the
bench press technique that I like to pin
my shoulder blades back. Now, so that's
a joint angle or a range of motion that
I neglected in the main movement is
scapular protraction. So, now I'm going
to do that under load. It's one of my
favorite shoulder health exercises. It's
where you do you know normal push-up but
then you focus on that component. So
what are the muscles responsible for
protraction of the scapula? There are a
few the main one being seratus anterior
which is a muscle that sits under the
shoulder blade. It's responsible for
protraction of the scapula but also
holding your scapula in place on the rib
cage. So the scapula is kind of like a
floating bone moves around freely. So
having a strong muscle to support that
is very important for overall shoulder
health. There's many muscles that attach
to it that we've already trained, but
seratus anterior is what we've
neglected. So now I'm going to show you
the protraction push-up.
[Music]
protraction push-ups. 20 reps. I can
definitely do more than 20 reps of a
normal
push-up. Good thing about handing
holding the dumbbells is little bit
longer range of motion, better for the
stretch position. It's also nicer on the
wrists instead of having your your hands
flat on the floor. So, neutral grip,
full stretch. Don't just lock out here.
Lock out there. That's what protraction
of the scapula is. That's what I'm
neglecting when I pin my shoulder blades
back here. And now I'll do another set
of that. Now,
that's complete strength development in
all the muscles of the shoulder for
pushing. So, there's more muscles of the
elbow that push. So triceps, if I was to
have a more complete and a like an
absolute complete push session, I would
want to include isolation exercises for
triceps. But I do that on another day
because so much volume from pushing, my
triceps are fatigued and I'm not going
to get hugely effective tricep work if I
add them. So I like to add triceps at my
heavy day where I do fewer sets of
pushing and then my accessories will be
more around the arms. Same with the
back. So now we go agonist antagonist
supersets or non-over overlapping
supersets. And I'm still going to
consider the muscles that I neglected in
the main movement. So for my main
movement for pulling was a vertical
pull. So now I'm going to do a slightly
different
angle. So we're factoring
in nonredundant exercises, right?
So I don't want to do more vertical
pulling. So same thing pull downs and a
pull up. Pretty much same
thing. So now check this out. So this is
one of my favorite. It's a horizontal
pull, but it's again it's a shoulder
health exercise. So this is a face pull.
Uh tip for you guys with a face pull, do
it seated. A lot of people do them
standing. Um just trust me. Try a set
standing and then try it seated straight
after and watch how much extra weight
you're going to be able to shift when
you're seated. It's a more stable
position and that's the focus.
So, so that exercise, why is it good for
shoulder health? Like all pulling
exercises, like pull downs are good for
shoulder health, rows are good for
shoulder health, but that hits other
muscles that the rose doesn't quite hit.
So pulling your elbows back like this,
right? This works the middle back
muscles in absence of lats. So to get
lats, you want to tuck the elbows. So
when I bring my upper armbbone above
90°, so that's abducted to 90°, lats are
off, right? So when we do rows like up
to the neck, if ever you see any of
that, that's turning lats off. That's
why turning lats off allows me to
emphasize my midback muscles a little
bit better. So it's kind of like
romboids and middle trapezius but then
so that's just a face pull to the neck
but then I'm going face pull to the top
of the head which includes an external
rotation component right so the external
rotators there's three two of them are
rotator cuff muscles infraspanatus ter's
minor and then the third one is the
posterior or the rear fibers of the
deltoid so it's good to include external
rotation so although I didn't
technically internally rotate with my
exercises lats big internal rotator so
my pull downs lats big internal rotator
pecs, another big internal rotator. So,
they're huge muscles that, you know,
push and pull, but they also internally
rotate the shoulders, which is why
balancing that out with strengthening
the external rotators is just a nice way
to complement the session. So, that's
I'm going to do another set of each high
reps. So, don't do that with five reps
or less. Like, that's 20 reps. You saw
20 reps on each. I like that rep range.
Perfect for those ancillary exercises.
Anyway, that's my complete session. I'll
write down the program in the
description. So, if you want to do the
same thing, go and do it. It's a free uh
it's a great program and it's very
complete. The only muscle that we're not
hitting muscles is the triceps and the
biceps. So, it's you're thinking, how am
I not hitting the triceps? You've done a
whole bunch of pushing and then the
biceps for the pulling. Well, here's the
problem. The long head of the tricep,
which is this one here. So, that one
here is a barticular muscle. It crosses
two joints, right? So, one action is
elbow joint extension. The other one is
shoulder joint extension, right? But
when I'm doing a push, it's elbow joint
extension with shoulder joint flexion,
right? So they're conflicting actions of
the long head of the tricep. So
therefore, all of your compound pressing
exercises aren't very effective for long
headed triceps. Same applies to the
biceps. So when we do our pull downs,
people think, yeah, you're doing, you
know, back and biceps. Well, they're
kind of on, but also not to their
greatest extent. It's two joints, so
they're also barticular muscles. They're
responsible for elbow joint flexion and
shoulder joint flexion. Whereas when
we're doing a pull, it's elbow flexion
and shoulder extension. Two conflicting
actions. So therefore, if all you do is
compound exercises for your triceps,
like pushing and pulling, you are going
to be left with underdeveloped
long-headed triceps and underdeveloped
biceps. How do we train that? By
isolating them. So we fix the shoulder
joint while we do our curls or fix the
shoulder joint while we do our
extensions. Now, as I said, I'm not
doing that today. I'm going to do that
on my heavy day because my arms are
smashed. I've done so much volume. Uh
anyway, great session. Thank you for
joining me. Until next time, leave a
comment of what you want to see me do or
what you want to learn about from me and
click like, subscribe, all that stuff.
Take care, guys.
I'm not going to say anything
inappropriate,